[rocprofiler-compute] Use native tool for counter collection (#1212)
ROCm/rocm-systems: projects/rocprofiler-compute/CHANGELOG.md

## Unreleased

## ROCm Compute Profiler 3.4.0 for ROCm 7.2.0

### Added

> * Native tool to perform counter collection using ROCprofiler-SDK public API

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Native tool to perform counter collection using ROCprofiler-SDK public API. It is only supported for ROCm version 7.0.0 (and later).
```
Updating description per recommendation in chat

>   * Native tool is default for counter collection

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  * Native tool is now the default for counter collection.
```

>   * Native tool for counter collection will not be used in the following conditions:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  * Native tool for counter collection will not be used under the following conditions:
```

>     * User provides a specific profiler through ``ROCPROF`` environment variable

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    * Specific profiler is provided through the ``ROCPROF`` environment variable.
```

>     * ``--no-native-tool`` option is provided, forcing usage of default profiler

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    * ``--no-native-tool`` option is provided, forcing usage of the default profiler.
```

>     * System has ROCm version 7.0.0 or earlier. [Please confirm if it is for earlier (eg.6.4.1, 6.4.2) or later (eg. 7.0.1, 7.0.2)]

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    * System has ROCm version 7.0.0 or earlier.
```
```suggestion
    * System has ROCm version 7.0.0 or earlier. 
```
Please confirm if it is for earlier (eg.6.4.1, 6.4.2) or later (eg. 7.0.1, 7.0.2) and update accordingly.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```
Removing line and moving it up per recommendation in chat

>     * Performing a live attach to a process for profiling

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    * When performing a dynamic attach to a process for profiling.
```

### Added

* Counter collection will be performed using native tool which uses rocprofiler-sdk public API

* Native tool for counter collection will not be used in the following conditions:
  * --no-native-tool option is provided
  * ROCm stack on the system is >= 7.0.0
  * attaching to a process for profiling 

> * Add `--list-blocks <arch>` option to general options to list available IP blocks on specified arch (similar to `--list-metrics`), cannot be used with `--block`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* `--list-blocks <arch>` option to general options. It lists the available IP blocks on the specified arch (similar to `--list-metrics`), however cannot be used with `--block`.
```

> * Added `config_delta/gfx950_diff.yaml` to analysis config yamls to track the revision between a gfx9 architecture against the latest supported architecture gfx950

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* `config_delta/gfx950_diff.yaml` to analysis config YAMLs to track the revision between the gfx9xx GPUs against the latest supported gfx950 GPUs.
```

### Changed

> * Default output format for underlying rocprofiler-sdk tool has been changed from csv to rocpd

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Default output format for the underlying ROCprofiler-SDK tool has been changed from ``csv`` to ``rocpd``.
```

>   * If rocprofiler-sdk rocpd public library is not available, will fallback to csv format

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  * If the ROCprofiler-SDK ``rocpd`` public library is not available, will fall back to ``csv`` format
```

> * Option --rocprofiler-sdk-library-path has been changed to --rocprofiler-tool-library-path to better reflect the fact that we provide flexibility in choosing the path to rocprofiler-sdk tool and not the library.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Option ``--rocprofiler-sdk-library-path`` has been changed to ``--rocprofiler-tool-library-path`` to better reflect the fact that we provide flexibility in choosing the path to ROCprofiler-SDK tool and not the library.
```

> * `-b/--block` accepts block alias(es) (See block aliases using command-line option `--list-blocks <arch>`).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* `-b/--block` accepts block alias(es). See block aliases using command-line option `--list-blocks <arch>`).
```
Can we provide more clarity on what we mean by (See block aliases using command-line option --list-blocks <arch>). Should we add a link to the document?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* `-b/--block` accepts block alias(es). See block aliases using command-line option `--list-blocks <arch>`.
```
Updating suggestion to remove extra bracket

> * analysis configs yamls are now managed with the new config management workflow in `tools/config_management/`

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Analysis configs YAMLs are now managed with the new config management workflow in `tools/config_management/`.
```

### Changed

* Default output format for underlying rocprofiler-sdk tool has been changed from csv to rocpd
  * If rocprofiler-sdk rocpd public library is not available, will fallback to csv format

* Option --rocprofiler-sdk-library-path has been changed to --rocprofiler-tool-library-path to better reflect the fact that we provide flexibility in choosing the path to rocprofiler-sdk tool and not the library.

* `-b/--block` accepts block alias(es) (See block aliases using command-line option `--list-blocks <arch>`).

* analysis configs yamls are now managed with the new config management workflow in `tools/config_management/`

* `amdsmi` python API is used instead of `amd-smi` CLI to query GPU specifications.

### Removed

> * Removed `database` mode from `rocprofiler-compute`. This is to move our focus from grafana

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Removed `database` mode from ROCm Compute Profiler in favor of other visualization methods, rather than Grafana and MongoDB integration, such as the upcoming Analysis DB-based Visualizer.
```

>   and mongodb integration to other visualization methods such as:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

>   * Analysis DB based Visualizer (upcoming)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

### Resolved issues

> * Fixed the meaning of --dispatch option in profile mode in argparser to convey the fact that it control which iterations

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Fixed the description of ``--dispatch`` option in profile mode under ``argparser`` to clarify that it controls which kernel iterations are profiled, rather than which dispatch IDs are profiled.
```

>   of the kernel to profile and not which dispatch ids to profile.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

> * The meaning of --dispatch option in analyze is still the same which is which dispatch ids to analyzer

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* The description of the ``--dispatch`` option in analyze is still, which dispatch IDs to analyze.
```
Should be indented under the previous note.

> * Fix the functioning of --dispatch option to act as 1-based index and ensure that correct kernel iterations are being

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Fixed the functioning of ``--dispatch`` option to act as a 1-based index and ensure that correct kernel iterations are being profiled.
```

>   profiled

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```
